# Drug-Consumption

The aim of this project is to classify a drug user or non-user based on an individual’s age, ethnicity, gender, education, country and FFM personality quantities along with an individual’s impulsive measure. Along with these factors, the predictors also include Nicotine, Alcohol, Chocolate and Caffeine last period of usage of the individual for classification. The classified users are further segregated into six different categories on the basis of period of last drug usage such as used in last day, last week or last month. The same classification is performed for multiple drugs such as Cannabis, Cocaine, LSD, etc.

In order to assess personality traits of the sample, the Revised NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI-R) questionnaire was employed. The dataset contains records for 1885 respondents and each record of a respondent has 13 attributes. Personality measurements which include NEO-FFI-R (neuroticism, extraversion, openness to experience, agreeableness, and conscientiousness), BIS-11 (impulsivity), and ImpSS (sensation seeking), level of education, age, gender, country of residence and ethnicity. All input attributes are originally categorical, but for ease of computation, the personality measurements, BIS-11 and ImpSS are quantified within the dataset.

In addition, participants were questioned concerning their use of 18 legal and illegal drugs alcohol, amphetamines, amyl nitrite, benzodiazepine, cannabis, chocolate, cocaine, caffeine, crack, ecstasy, heroin, ketamine, legal highs, LSD, methadone, mushrooms, nicotine, volatile substance abuse and one fictitious drug (Semeron) which was introduced to identify over-claimers. For each drug, the respondents have to select one of the answers: never used the drug, used it over a decade ago, or in the last decade, year, month, week, or day. Each of independent label variables contains seven classes: CL0: "Never Used", CL1: "Used over a Decade Ago", CL2: "Used in Last Decade", CL3: "Used in Last Year", CL4: "Used in Last Month", CL5: "Used in Last Week", and CL6: "Used in Last Day".

